UNKNOWN


 श्रीराधाकृपाकटाक्षस्तवराजः सार्थः 
मुनीन्द्रवृन्दवन्दिते त्रिलोकशोकहारिणि
प्रसन्नवक्त्रपङ्कजे निकुञ्जभूविलासिनि ।
व्रजेन्द्रभानुनन्दनि व्रजेन्द्रसूनुसङ्गते
कदा करिष्यसीह मां कृपाकटाक्षभाजनम् ॥ १॥

अशोकवृक्षवल्लरीवितानमण्डपस्थिते
प्रवालबालपल्लवप्रभारुणाङ्घ्रिकोमले ।
वराभयस्फुरत्करे प्रभूतसम्पदालये
कदा करिष्यसीह मां कृपाकटाक्षभाजनम् ॥ २॥

अनङ्गरङ्गमङ्गलप्रसङ्गभङ्गुरभ्रुवां
सविभ्रमं ससम्भ्रमं दृगन्तबाणपातनैः ।
निरन्तरं वशीकृतप्रतीतिनन्दनन्दने
कदा करिष्यसीह मां कृपाकटाक्षभाजनम् ॥ ३॥

तडित्सुवर्णचम्पकप्रदीप्तगौरविग्रहे
मुखप्रभापरास्तकोटिशारदेन्दुमण्डले ।
विचित्रचित्रसञ्चरच्चकोरशाबलोचने
कदा करिष्यसीह मां कृपाकटाक्ष भाजनम् ॥ ४॥

मदोन्मदातियौवने प्रमोदमानमण्डिते
प्रियानुरागरञ्जिते कलाविलासपण्डिते ।
अनन्यधन्यकुञ्जराज्यकामकेलिकोविदे
कदा करिष्यसीह मां कृपाकटाक्षभाजनम् ॥ ५॥

अशेषहावभावधीरहीरहारभूषिते
प्रभूतशातकुम्भकुम्भकुम्भकुम्भसुस्तनि ।
प्रशस्तमन्दहास्यचूर्णपूर्णसौख्यसागरे
कदा करिष्यसीह मां कृपाकटाक्षभाजनम् ॥ ६॥

मृणालवालवल्लरी तरङ्गरङ्गदोर्लते
लताग्रलास्यलोलनीललोचनावलोकने ।
ललल्लुलन्मलन्मनोज्ञमुग्धमोहनाश्रिते
कदा करिष्यसीह मां कृपाकटाक्षभाजनम् ॥ ७॥

सुवर्णमालिकाञ्चितत्रिरेखकम्बुकण्ठगे
त्रिसूत्रमङ्गलीगुणत्रिरत्नदीप्तिदीधिते ।
सलोलनीलकुन्तलप्रसूनगुच्छगुम्फिते
कदा करिष्यसीह मां कृपाकटाक्षभाजनम् ॥ ८॥

नितम्बबिम्बलम्बमानपुष्पमेखलागुणे
प्रशस्तरत्नकिङ्किणीकलापमध्यमञ्जुले ।
करीन्द्रशुण्डदण्डकावराहसौभगोरुके
कदा करिष्यसीह मां कृपाकटाक्षभाजनम् ॥ ९॥

अनेकमन्त्रनादमञ्जुनूपुरारवस्खल-
त्समाजराजहंसवंशनिक्वणातिगौरवे ।
विलोलहेमवल्लरीविडम्बचारुचङ्क्रमे
कदा करिष्यसीह मां कृपाकटाक्षभाजनम् ॥ १०॥

अनन्तकोटिविष्णुलोकनम्रपद्मजार्चिते
हिमाद्रिजापुलोमजाविरिञ्चजावरप्रदे ।
अपारसिद्धिऋद्धिदिग्धसम्पदङ्गुलीनखे
कदा करिष्यसीह मां कृपाकटाक्षभाजनम् ॥ ११॥

मखेश्वरि क्रियेश्वरि स्वधेश्वरि सुरेश्वरि
त्रिवेदभारतीश्वरि प्रमाणशासनेश्वरि ।
रमेश्वरि क्षमेश्वरि प्रमोदकाननेश्वरि
व्रजेश्वरि व्रजाधिपे श्रीराधिके नमोऽस्तु ते ॥ १२॥

अमुं ममाद्भुतं स्तवं निशम्य भानुनन्दनी
करोतु सन्ततं जनं कृपाकटाक्षभाजनम् ।
भवेत्तदैव सञ्चितत्रिरूपकर्मनाशनं
भवेत्तदा व्रजेन्द्रसूनुमण्डलप्रवेशनम् ॥ १३॥

फलश्रुतिः -
राकायाञ्च सिताष्टम्यां दश्म्याञ्च विशुद्धधीः ।
एकादश्यां त्रयोदश्यां यः पठेत्सशिवः स्वयम् ॥ १४॥

यं यं कामयते कामं तन्तमाप्नोति साधकः ।
राधाकृपाकटाक्षेण भुक्त्वान्ते मोक्षमाप्नुयात् ॥ १५॥

ऊरुदघ्ने नाभिदघ्ने हृदघ्ने कण्ठदघ्नके ।
राधाकुण्डजले स्थित्वा यः पठेत्साधकस्तु सः ॥ १६॥

तस्य सर्वार्थसिद्धिः स्याद्वाक्सिद्धिञ्च तथा लभेत् ।
ऐश्वर्यञ्च लभेत्साक्षाद्दृशा पश्यन्ति राधिकाम् ॥ १७॥

तेन सा तत्क्षणादेव तुष्टा दत्ते महावरम् ।
येन पश्यन्ति नेत्राभ्यां तत्प्रियं श्यामसुन्दरम् ॥ १८॥

नित्यलीलाप्रवेश्यञ्च ददाति श्रीव्रजाधिपः ।
अतः परतरं प्राप्त्यै वैष्णवस्य न विद्यते ॥ १९॥

इति ऊर्ध्वानायतन्त्रान्तर्गतः श्रीराधाकृपाकटाक्षस्तवराजः सम्पूर्णः ।

Prayer for the Merciful Sidelong Glance of Shri Radha
Found in the Urdhvamnaya Tantra
English translation by Manish Modi

Mighty mendicants pay obeisance at her feet
She can rid the three worlds of unhappiness
Her lotus-shaped face is always smiling
She lives in the palace of beautiful twines
Princess of King Vrajendrabhanu
And Queen of Lord Krishna's heart
O goddess Radha, when will you look upon me,
your devotee, with benevolence? 1

You reside in the temple made of ashoka twines
Your feet are pink like coral, fire and new leaves
Your blessings bring devotees the gifts they desire
You are always pleased to bless the deserving ones
Your hands are like lotuses
You are the unique empress of endless wealth and riches
O goddess Radha, when will you look upon me,
your devotee, with benevolence? 2

On the play of love, during an auspicious episode
Playfully raising your eyebrows, pretending surprise
Using coy glances, you keep Lord Krishna enraptured
O goddess Radha, when will you look upon me,
your devotee, with benevolence? 3

You are fair-skinned, your complexion is likened to
Lightening, gold and the campa flower
Your limbs glow with the lustre of gold
The moon-like glow of your lotus-like face wins
The hearts of crores of full moons
Each moment you display different aspects of your qualities
O goddess Radha, when will you look upon me,
your devotee, with benevolence? 4

You are engrossed in your beauty and youth
Your heart full of love and happiness is your best jewel
You are painted in the hue of your loved one
Many loving men and women skilled in the arts are your devotees
You are the mistress of the art of love and pleasure
O goddess Radha, when will you look upon me,
your devotee, with benevolence? 5

Your beauty is enhanced by all gestures,
Your body is bejewelled by patience, and diamond necklaces
Your full breasts are like pots of pure gold,
Like the cheeks of a female elephant
Of a pleasant disposition, there is always a smile playing
On your lips, displaying the ocean of bliss that resides in you
O goddess Radha, when will you look upon me,
your devotee, with benevolence? 6

Your delicate arms are like the stem of a lotus,
Swaying gently in the waves
Like leaves stirred by a soft breeze
You look out of vivacious blue eyes
Your presence is alluring, attractive and captivating
You capture the heart and mind
You are a shelter to the besotted heart of Lord Krishna
O goddess Radha, when will you look upon me,
your devotee, with benevolence? 7

There are three lines on your bejewelled torso
Your throat is beautiful like a conch
You wear a three-stranded necklace
With a tri-coloured pendant
Your dark flowing curly hair has been braided by divine flowers
O goddess Radha, when will you look upon me,
your devotee, with benevolence?
When will I be capable of paying in obeisance to your divine feet? 8

Your slim waist is encircled by a strand of jewels
Which has flowers made of gold and studded with jewels
Which jingle merrily and create a beautiful sound
Your thighs are beautiful like the elephants trunk
O goddess Radha, when will you look upon me,
your devotee, with benevolence?
And when will you help me cross the ocean of transmigration? 9

The anklets at your feet jingle creating music that
Sounds like the mantras from the Vedas
The jewels studded in your anklets remind one of
A family of majestic swans
When you walk, your lissome body
Looks like a swaying golden twine
O goddess Radha, when will you look upon me,
your devotee, with benevolence?
When will I be privileged to be your humble servant? 10

You are the goddess of millions of heavens
You are worshipped by LakShmI, the goddess of wealth
And by ParvatI, by IndraNI and by SarasvatI, the goddess of wisdom
They have all worshipped you and are blessed by you
Even worshipping your toenails brings one endless mystic powers
O goddess Radha, when will you look upon me,
your devotee, with benevolence? 11

Mother Radha, you are the recipient of all yajnas;
doer of all deeds; overlord of all the gods and goddesses;
All the Vedas and all speech;
Mistress of Formal Logic
Of the goddesses Rama and KShama
And owner of the Forest of Happiness
O goddess Radha, when will you look upon me,
your devotee, with benevolence? 12

O forever young goddess,
Upon hearing this strange devotional poem
Make this slave forever a recipient of your benevolence
Your benign glance is enough to destroy all my karmas
And earn me a place at the feet of Lord Krishna
In a state of eternal bliss
O goddess Radha, please accept my million-fold obeisance at your feet 13

If a seeker with pure mind were to recite this prayer with complete concentration on the full moon day, the aShTamI, the dashamI, the ekadashI and the trayodashI, all his desires shall be fulfilled. With the glance of Radha, he will gain the opportunity to do bhakti, which is the attribute of one who truly loves God.  14-15

One who recites this prayer one hundred times while standing in the waters of Shri Radha KuNDa up to his thighs, navel, chest, or neck will fulfil all his goals. He might also attain the power that whatever he says will come true. He shall attain divinity and be able to gaze at the goddess Radha with his own eyes. 16-17

So pleased will goddess Radha be that she will instantaneously bestow upon the reciter of this prayer the supreme boon of being able to gaze at her beloved Lord Shyamasundara with his own eyes. Then, the lord of Vraja grants the reciter of this prayer an entrance into his eternal lIla. Can there be a greater boon for the true VaiShNava? 18-19

            - Manish Modi, Mumbai, Krishna JanmaShTamI, August 2020


Pरूफ़्रेअद् ब्य् Pषा Eअस्वरन्


