हृदं भोजे कृष्णः सजलजलदश्यामलतनुः सरोजाक्षः स्रग्वी मुकुटकटकाद्याभरणवान् ।
शरद्राकानाथ प्रतिमवदनः श्री मुरलिकाम् वहन् ध्येयो गोपीगणपरिवृतः कुंकुमचितः ॥

May one contemplate on the Lord whose body-hue resembles the water-bearing dark clouds, who is bedecked(decorated) with Vanamala garland, the crown, armlet etc., who is lotus eyed, with his face resembling autmnal moon, who is anointed with vermillion, who rejoices with Gopikas and plays the flute.

O Lord! May you come to reside in my heart from the island of milky ocean; Oh Hari! be seated on the bejewelled golden throne. I shall cleanse your feet which is marked with the good symbol of Lotus and Chakra with pure divine Ganges. O slayer of Mura please accept this arghya water containing tender durva grass.

Oh Upendra! Sip the cold water of divine Ganges! Parmatma, remover of all sins, accept the Panchamrta snana (bath with juice of fruits) and bathe in the water of Ganges and Yamuna stored in golden pots and perform acamana.

Oh, beloved of Lakshmi! Brother of Balarama, the remover of sins. please accept this sacred thread (upavita) and O Hari garments which resembles the brilliance of lightning. apply this sandal and musk paste on your forehead and also wear the garlands consisting of Tulasi and Lotuses.

O Bestower of boons to noble! the incense (smoke) of dasanga is offered at your feet. Oh Lord I offer this lamp to render your face give lustrous like moon's rays. Oh, one worshipped by Lord Saraswati(i.e Brahma) with this water mixed with camphor cleanse your hands and may you also partake of the same.

O the son of Yasodha! you can partake of this to your satisfaction the food served with six rasas (flavours) and with all side dishes in golden plate along with cow's ghee, with your friends who want to have your prasada. Having eaten, accept this water for drinking.

O Hari accept the betal leaves with powdered nuts to cleanse your mouth, and also tasty fruits with joy, I shall offer at the end of pooja the lighted Golden and gem studded lamp, as a mark of services.

I rejoice by offering this floral worship (anjali) by placing the varigated and scented flowers along with Bilva and Tulsi leaves on your head. O Vishnu the sins are destroyed by
circamambulating you four times by the wise who are desirous of freedom from birth.

O Lord! my salutation is capable of destroying al my sins. O Lord of Lakshmi may the dance, song, hyms of praise performed by me pleasing to you. Oh effulgent one, I am your servent. Kindly pardon any lapse in my worship. Salutations unto you.

The Lord Krishna whose long tresses resemble dark clouds, who has curd-rice, butter or flute at times in his hands, who rejoices in the company of his dear companions, who at times decorates the bosom of the beloved one with dye, is ever to be adored by all.


1. Upon Lord Kṛṣṇa do I meditate in the heart. Dark as cloud, he is lotus-eyed. He is garlanded and has his crown and bracelet as the ornaments. Moon-faced, and smeared with kumkum, he holds the flute and is surrounded by the gopī-s.



2. Oh Lord! I welcome You to my heart. Arrive from the Milky Ocean. Occupy the gem-studded golden seat. O Yadava, I wash your well-marked feet. Receive this arghya along with dūrvā grass, fruit and waters.



3. Perform the ācamana. Here are the cool waters of the Gaṅgā. Take bath in the juice of pañcāmṛta fruits. Here are waters in a golden pot from Gaṅgā and Yamunā. Bathe and do the ācamana.



4. Wear these yellow garments, and this soft upavīta. Mark your forehead with the kastūrī tilaka. Have this garland with tulasī and lotuses.



5. Here is the daśāṅga incense. Here is the lamp lighting up your face. Receive the dust of karpūra to cleanse your hands. Do the ācamana with this water.



6. Here is your meal : the rice for you, accompanied by side-dishes of the six rasa-s offered in a golden plate. Alongside is a cup filled with cow's ghee. Enjoy this along with your friends, and drink some water too.



7. Here is tāmbūla along with cūrṇa that cleanses the mouth. Here are sweet, fragrant fruits. I offer you the gold-studded-gems. Here too is the ārati for you.



8. Over your head, I offer this puṣpāñjali of varied, fragrant flowers, and bilva and tulasī. I do the pradakṣiṇa four times that kills all sins.



9. Here is sāṣṭāṅga namaskāra followed by dance, song and praise. May this please you. I am your dāsa: make up for my lapses. My salutations to you.



10. Kṛṣṇa holds curd-rice and butter in his hand. Holding a flute, He sports with his beloveds and plays with the kids. He is to be worshipped always.
