(1)
vraje prasiddham navanita-cauram
gopangananam ca dukula-cauram
aneka-janmarjita-papa-cauram
cauragraganyam purusham namami



I offer pranama to that foremost of thieves – who is famous in Vraja as the butterthief and He who steals the gopis’ clothes, and who, for those who take shelter of Him, steals the sins which have accrued over many lifetimes.



(2)
shri radhikaya hridayasya cauram
navambuda-shyamala-kanti-cauram
padashritanam ca samasta-cauram
cauragraganyam purusham namami

I offer pranama to the foremost of thieves – who steals Shrimati Radhika’s heart, who steals the dark luster of a fresh raincloud, and who steals all the sins and sufferings of those who take shelter of His feet.



(3)
akincani-kritya padashritam yah
karoti bhikshum pathi geha-hinam
kenapy aho bhishana-caura idrig
drishtah-shruto va na jagat-traye ’pi

He turns His surrendered devotees into paupers and wandering, homeless beggars - aho! such a fearsome thief has never been seen or heard of in all the three worlds.



(4)
yadiya namapi haraty ashesham
giri-prasaran api papa-rashin
ashcarya-rupo nanu caura idrig
drishtah shruto va na maya kadapi

Mere utterance of His name purges one of a mountain of sins – such an astonishingly wonderful thief I have never seen or heard of anywhere!



(5)
dhanam ca manam ca tathendriyani
pranamsh ca hritva mama sarvam eva
palayase kutra dhrito ’dya caura
tvam bhakti-damnasi maya niruddhah

O Thief! Having stolen my wealth, my honour, my senses, my life and my everything, where can You run to? I have caught You with the rope of my devotion.



(6)
chinatsi ghoram yama-pasha-bandham
bhinatsi bhimam bhava-pasha-bandham
chinatsi sarvasya samasta-bandham
naivatmano bhakta-kritam tu bandham

You cut the terrible noose of Yamaraja, You sever the dreadful noose of material existence, and You slash everyone’s material bondage, but You are unable to cut the knot fastened by Your own loving devotees.



(7)
man-manase tamasa-rashi-ghore
karagrihe duhkha-maye nibaddhah
labhasva he caura! hare! ciraya
sva-caurya-doshocitam eva dandam

O stealer of my everything! O Thief! Today I have imprisoned You in the miserable prison-house of my heart which is very fearful due to the terrible darkness of my ignorance, and there for a very long time You will remain, receiving appropriate punishment for Your crimes of thievery!



(8)
karagrihe vasa sada hridaye madiye
mad-bhakti-pasha-dridha-bandhana-nishcalah san
tvam krishna he! pralaya-koti-shatantare ’pi
sarvasva-caura! hridayan na hi mocayami

O Krishna, thief of my everything! The noose of my devotion remaining forever tight, You will continue to reside in the prison-house of my heart because I will not release You for millions of aeons. (This ashtaka is recited in the poetic meter known as “Upajati”.)
