नमामीश्वरं सच्चिदानंदरूपं लसत्कुण्डलं गोकुले भ्राजमानं
यशोदाभियोलूखलाद्धावमानं परामृष्टमत्यं ततो द्रुत्य गोप्या ॥ १॥

रुदन्तं मुहुर्नेत्रयुग्मं मृजन्तम् कराम्भोज-युग्मेन सातङ्क-नेत्रम्
मुहुः श्वास-कम्प-त्रिरेखाङ्क-कण्ठ स्थित-ग्रैवं दामोदरं भक्ति-बद्धम् ॥ २॥

इतीदृक् स्वलीलाभिरानंद कुण्डे स्व-घोषं निमज्जन्तम् आख्यापयन्तम्
तदीयेशितज्ञेषु भक्तिर्जितत्वम पुनः प्रेमतस्तं शतावृत्ति वन्दे ॥ ३॥

वरं देव! मोक्षं न मोक्षावधिं वा न चान्यं वृणेऽहं वरेशादपीह
इदं ते वपुर्नाथ गोपाल बालं सदा मे मनस्याविरास्तां किमन्यैः ॥ ४॥

इदं ते मुखाम्भोजम् अत्यन्त-नीलैः वृतं कुन्तलैः स्निग्ध-रक्तैश्च गोप्या
मुहुश्चुम्बितं बिम्बरक्ताधरं मे मनस्याविरास्तामलं लक्षलाभैः ॥ ५॥

नमो देव दामोदरानन्त विष्णो प्रभो दुःख-जालाब्धि-मग्नम्
कृपा-दृष्टि-वृष्ट्याति-दीनं बतानु गृहाणेष मामज्ञमेध्यक्षिदृश्यः ॥ ६॥

कुबेरात्मजौ बद्ध-मूर्त्यैव यद्वत् त्वया मोचितौ भक्ति-भाजौ कृतौ च
तथा प्रेम-भक्तिं स्वकां मे प्रयच्छ न मोक्षे ग्रहो मेऽस्ति दामोदरेह ॥ ७॥

नमस्तेऽस्तु दाम्ने स्फुरद्-दीप्ति-धाम्ने त्वदीयोदरायाथ विश्वस्य धाम्ने
नमो राधिकायै त्वदीय-प्रियायै नमोऽनन्त-लीलाय देवाय तुभ्यम्

I offer my reverence to the supreme lord, who is a manifestation of ultimate bliss, whose earrings touching his cheeks, whose abode is Gokula. and who stole the butter that gopis kept in hidden places. Mother Yashoda is furious with him because he broke the butter pot. Scared of mother Yashoda, he jumped swiftly and ran, but got caught by her finally.

Upon seeing his mother with a whipping stick, he starts crying and rubbing his eyes again and again with his lotus hands out of fear. His eyes were full of fear, and he is breathing quickly due to which pearl necklace is shaking in his tri-lined neck. I bow down to Supreme Lord, whose belly is tied by rope of love by Mother Yashoda.

All the inhabitant of Gokula is completly drenched in ectasy for beholding Lord Krishna’s childhood pastimes. To the devotees who are attracted only to His majestic aspect of Narayana in Vaikuntha, the Lord herein reveals: “I am conquered and overwhelmed by pure loving devotion.” To the Supreme Lord, Damodara, my obeisances hundreds and hundreds of times.

O’ Lord, Though you can give all kinds of boons, I don’t expect you to bestow me with liberation from worldly life, nor I need a place in your heavenly abode Vaikuntha, nor any benediction, O lord I only pray for the vision of your childhood form forever stay in my heart. There is no desire other than that.

O Lord! your dark-complexioned lotus face, which is encircled by locks of curly hair, has become red like bimb fruit due to mother Yashoda’s kisses. I don’t need any worldly pleasure, but only this vision remain in my mind forever.

O Ocean of love! Damodar! O Infinite Vishnu! and Be pleased upon me! I’m deep in the middle of the sea of sorrow. Please shower your blessing on me and cast your merciful nectarine vision on petty me.

O, Lord Damodara! When you were tied up with grinding stone by Mother Yashoda, you gave salvation to sons of Kubera (Manigreeva and Nalakuvara) from the banishment of Narad muni. They become freed from the curse of being a tree and came to your shelter for your loving devotion. As you blessed the Kubera’s sons, please shower your grace upon me. I have no desire for any liberation.

O Lord, I offer my humble reverence to the great rope which tied your abdomen from where Lord Brahma, who created the entire universe, was born. I bow many, many times to the lotus feet of your beloved Radharani. And offer obeisance to your infinite forms of bliss.