kadāchit-kālindī taṭavipina saṅgītakaravō
mudābhīrī nārīvadana kamalāsvādamadhupaḥ ।
ramā śambhu brahmāmarapati gaṇēśārchita padō
jagannāthaḥ svāmī nayanapathagāmī bhavatu mē ॥ 1 ॥

Sometimes in great happiness Lord Jagannatha, with His flute, makes a loud concert in the groves on the banks of the Yamuna. He is like a bumblebee who tastes the beautiful lotus-like faces of the cowherd damsels of Vraja, and His lotus feet are worshiped by great personalities such as Lakshmi, Siva, Brahma, Indra and Ganesa. May that Jagannatha Swami be the object of my vision.

bhujē savyē vēṇuṃ śirasi śikhipiñChaṃ kaṭitaṭē
dukūlaṃ nētrāntē sahacharakaṭākṣaṃ vidadhatē ।
sadā śrīmadvṛndāvanavasatilīlāparichayō
jagannāthaḥ svāmī nayanapathagāmī bhavatu nē ॥ 2 ॥

In His left hand Lord Jagannatha holds a flute. On His head He wears the feathers of peacocks and on His hips He wears fine yellow silken cloth. Out of the corners of His eyes He bestows sidelong glances upon His loving devotees and He always reveals Himself through His pastimes in His divine abode of Vrindavana. May that Jagannatha Swami be the object of my vision.

mahāmbhōdhēstīrē kanakaruchirē nīlaśikharē
vasan prāsādāntassahaja balabhadrēṇa balinā ।
subhadrā madhyasthassakalasura sēvāvasaradō
jagannāthaḥ svāmī nayanapathagāmī bhavatu mē ॥ 3 ॥

Residing on the shore of the great ocean, within a large palace situated upon the crest of the brilliant, golden Nilacala Hill, along with His powerful brother Bala-bhadra, and in the middle of Them His sister Subhadra, Lord Jagannatha bestows the opportunity for devotional service upon all godly souls. May that Jagannatha Swami be the object of my vision.

kṛpā pārāvārāssajala jalada śrēṇiruchirō
ramāvāṇī rāmasphuradamala paṅkeruhamukhaḥ ।
surēndrairārādhyaḥ śrutigaṇaśikhā gīta charitō
jagannāthaḥ svāmī nayanapathagāmī bhavatu mē ॥ 4 ॥

Lord Jagannatha is an ocean of mercy and He is beautiful like a row of blackish rain clouds. He is the storehouse of bliss for Lakshmi and Saraswati, and His face is like a spotless full-blown lotus. He is worshiped by the best of demigods and sages, and His glories are sung by the Upanishads. May that Jagannatha Swami be the object of my vision.

rathārūḍhō gachChan pathi milita bhūdēvapaṭalaiḥ
stuti prādurbhāvaṃ pratipadamupākarṇya sadayaḥ ।
dayāsindhurbandhussakala jagatā sindhusutayā
jagannāthaḥ svāmī nayanapathagāmī bhavatu mē ॥ 5 ॥

When Lord Jagannatha is on His Ratha-yatra cart and is moving along the road, at every step there is a loud presentation of prayers and songs chanted by large assemblies of brahmanas. Hearing their hymns Lord Jagannatha is very favorably disposed towards them. He is the ocean of mercy and the true friend of all the worlds. May that Jagannatha Swami, along with His consort Lakshmi, who was born from the ocean of nectar, be the object of my vision.

parabrahmāpīḍaḥ kuvalaya-dalōtphullanayanō
nivāsī nīlādrau nihita-charaṇō'nanta-śirasi ।
rasānandō rādhā-sarasa-vapurāliṅgana-sakhō
jagannāthaḥ svāmī nayanapathagāmī bhavatu mē ॥ 6 ॥

He is the ornament of the head of Lord Brahma and His eyes are like the full-blown petals of the lotus. He resides on the Nilacala Hill, and His lotus feet are placed on the heads of Ananta Deva. Lord Jagannatha is overwhelmed by the mellow of love and He becomes joyful in the embracing of the body of Sri Radharani, which is like a cool pond. May that Jagannatha Swami be the object of my vision.

na vai yāchē rājyaṃ na cha kanaka māṇikya vibhavaṃ
na yāchē'haṃ ramyāṃ nikhilajana-kāmyāṃ varavadhūm ।
sadā kālē kālē pramatha-patinā gītacharitō
jagannāthaḥ svāmī nayanapathagāmī bhavatu mē ॥ 7 ॥

I do not pray for a kingdom, nor for gold, rubies, and wealth. I do not ask for an excellent and beautiful wife as desired by all men. I simply pray that Jagannatha Swami, whose glories are always sung by Lord Siva, be the constant object of my vision.

hara tvaṃ saṃsāraṃ drutataramasāraṃ surapatē
hara tvaṃ pāpānāṃ vitatimaparāṃ yādavapatē ।
ahō dīnō'nāthē nihitacharaṇō niśchitamidaṃ
jagannāthaḥ svāmī nayanapathagāmī bhavatu mē ॥ 8 ॥

O Lord of the demigods, please quickly remove this useless material existence I am undergoing. O Lord of the Yadus, please destroy this vast ocean of sins which has no shore. Alas, this is certain that Lord Jagannatha’s lotus feet are bestowed upon those who feel themselves fallen and have no shelter in this world but Him. May that Jagannatha Swami be the object of my vision.

jagannāthāṣṭakaṃ punyaṃ yaḥ paṭhēt prayataḥ śuchiḥ ।
sarvapāpa viśuddhātmā viṣṇulōkaṃ sa gachChati ॥

The self-retrained, virtuous soul who recites these eight verses glorifying Lord Jagannatha becomes cleansed of all sins and duly proceeds to Lord Visnu's abode.

iti śrīmad śaṅkarāchāryavirachitaṃ jagannāthāṣṭakaṃ sampūrṇaṃ॥

Thus ends the eight stanza hymn Jagannāthāṣṭakam composed by Śrimat Śaṅkaracārya