vasudēva sutaṃ dēvaṃ kaṃsa chāṇūra mardanam ।
dēvakī paramānandaṃ kṛṣṇaṃ vandē jagadgurum ॥

O Lord, the son of Vasudeva, who killed the Kamsa(Maternal uncle) and Chanura (Wrestler in the Kamsa’s court) (for their wicked actions)
Who is the immense joy of Devaki (Krishna’s Mother), O Krishna I bow to you, the guru of the world.

atasī puṣpa saṅkāśaṃ hāra nūpura śōbhitam ।
ratna kaṅkaṇa kēyūraṃ kṛṣṇaṃ vandē jagadgurum ॥

The one who is looks great with Aathasi flowers (blue flax flowers), who shines resplendent with the jewels like harams and anklets
Who wears a bracelet (like Kankana) made with precious gems, I bow to you Lord Krishna, the teacher of the world.

kuṭilālaka saṃyuktaṃ pūrṇachandra nibhānanam ।
vilasat kuṇḍaladharaṃ kṛṣṇaṃ vandē jagadguram ॥

The one with the curly hair, whose face looks like the full moon
Who is adorned with great looking earrings, I bow to you, Lord Krishna, the Guru of the world.

mandāra gandha saṃyuktaṃ chāruhāsaṃ chaturbhujam ।
barhi piñChāva chūḍāṅgaṃ kṛṣṇaṃ vandē jagadgurum ॥

The one who has fragrance of the pastes of Mandara flowers, with a gentle smile and four hands
Wearing the peacock feather on his head, I bow to you O lord Krishna, the guru of the world.

utphulla padmapatrākṣaṃ nīla jīmūta sannibham ।
yādavānāṃ śirōratnaṃ kṛṣṇaṃ vandē jagadgurum ॥

O the one whose eyes look like bloomed lotus petals, whose body resembles the dark blue clouds
Who is the crest gem (greatest one) among the Yadava clan, Lord Krishna, I bow to you, the guru of the world.

rukmiṇī kēḻi saṃyuktaṃ pītāmbara suśōbhitam ।
avāpta tulasī gandhaṃ kṛṣṇaṃ vandē jagadgurum ॥

The Lord who is engaged in playing with Rukmini, adorned and resplendent with peetambaras (silk garments woven with gold)
Who attracts to the scent of Tulasi (Ocimum), I bow to you, Lord Krishna, Guru of the World.

gōpikānāṃ kuchadvanda kuṅkumāṅkita vakṣasam ।
śrīnikētaṃ mahēṣvāsaṃ kṛṣṇaṃ vandē jagadgurum ॥

One who is embraced with the Gopikas by which whose body is smeared the Kumkum (vermilion)
The Lord in whom the Lakshmi resides, the one who has a big bow, O Krishna, I bow to you, the guru of the world.

śrīvatsāṅkaṃ mahōraskaṃ vanamālā virājitam ।
śaṅkhachakra dharaṃ dēvaṃ kṛṣṇaṃ vandē jagadgurum ॥

Having the marks of Sri Vasta (mark of devi Lakshmi), Who gristly enjoys (in himself), looking great with the garlands of flowers
O Lord Krishna, holding the conch and a discus, I bow to you, the Guru of the world.

kṛṣṇāṣṭaka midaṃ puṇyaṃ prātarutthāya yaḥ paṭhēt ।
kōṭijanma kṛtaṃ pāpaṃ smaraṇēna vinaśyati ॥

The one who recites this Krishna ashtakam early in the mornings will get immense Punya
And the sins done in his previous births will also be destroyed by reciting (understanding the meaning).

------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

वसुदेव सुतं देवं कंस चाणूर मर्दनम् ।
देवकी परमानन्दं कृष्णं वन्दे जगद्गुरुम् ॥

अतसी पुष्प सङ्काशं हार नूपुर शोभितम् ।
रत्न कङ्कण केयूरं कृष्णं वन्दे जगद्गुरुम् ॥

कुटिलालक संयुक्तं पूर्णचन्द्र निभाननम् ।
विलसत् कुण्डलधरं कृष्णं वन्दे जगद्गुरम् ॥

मन्दार गन्ध संयुक्तं चारुहासं चतुर्भुजम् ।
बर्हि पिंछाव चूडाङ्गं कृष्णं वन्दे जगद्गुरुम् ॥

उत्फुल्ल पद्मपत्राक्षं नील जीमूत सन्निभम् ।
यादवानां शिरोरत्नं कृष्णं वन्दे जगद्गुरुम् ॥

रुक्मिणी केलि संयुक्तं पीताम्बर सुशोभितम् ।
अवाप्त तुलसी गन्धं कृष्णं वन्दे जगद्गुरुम् ॥

गोपिकानां कुचद्वन्द कुङ्कुमाङ्कित वक्षसम् ।
श्रीनिकेतं महेष्वासं कृष्णं वन्दे जगद्गुरुम् ॥

श्रीवत्साङ्कं महोरस्कं वनमाला विराजितम् ।
शङ्खचक्र धरं देवं कृष्णं वन्दे जगद्गुरुम् ॥

कृष्णाष्टक मिदं पुण्यं प्रातरुत्थाय यः पठेत् ।
कोटिजन्म कृतं पापं स्मरणेन विनश्यति ॥