यमुना निकट तटस्थित वृन्दावन कानने महारथ्ये।

 yamuna nikata tatasthita vrindavana kanane maharamye

 In a most beautiful flowery bower in Vrindavana, on the banks of the River Yamuna,

कल्पद्रुमतलभूमौ चरणं चरणोपरिस्थाप्य ॥

kalpadrumatalabhumau charanam charanoparisthapya

Shri Krishna is sitting with one leg crossed over the other under a divine wish-fulfilling tree.

तिष्ठंतं घननीलं स्वतेजसा भासयन्तमिह विश्वम्।

tishthantam ghananilam svatejasa bhasayantamiha vishvam

Supremely effulgent, His blue body’s divine glow is illuminating the entire world.

पीताम्बर परिधानं चन्दनकर्पूर लिप्तसर्वांगम्॥

 pitambara paridhanam chandanakarpura liptasarvangam

He is dressed in saffron-yellow silk and His entire body is anointed with sandalwood paste mixed with camphor.

आकर्णपूर्णनेत्रं कुण्डलयुगमण्डित श्रवणम्।

akarnapurnanetram kundalayugamandita shravanam

His large captivating lotus eyes almost reach up to His ears. His ears are adorned with glittering earrings.

मंदस्मितमुखकमल सकौस्तुभोदारमणिहारम्॥

mandasmitamukhakamalam sakaustubhodarumaniharam

 There is a gentle suulenticing smile on His face. He is wearing netklaces of precious stones pearls and the kaustubha gem.

वलयांगुलीयकाद्यानुज्वलयन्तं स्वलंकारान्।

valayamguliyakadyamnujwalayantam svalankaran

The radiance and lustre of His body enhances the splendour of His bracelets, rings and other ornaments.

गलविलुलितवनमालं स्वतेजसापास्तकलिकालम्॥

galavilulitavanamalam svatejasapastakalikalam

Around His neck a tanamala, a garland of various fragrant sylvan flowers, prarijatu kuunda mandara, lotus interspersed with tulasi leaves, is gently swinging to and fro. His divine presence drives away the evil effect of the dark age of Kali Yuga.

गुंजारवालिकलितं गुंजापुंजान्विते शिरसि।

gunjaravalikalitam gunjäpunjanvite shirasi

 His curly black locks embrace His head like twining creepers and the humming bees, attracted by those nectarean vines of love, enhance the scene.

भुंजानं सह गोपैः कुंजांतर्वर्तिनं नमत ॥

bhuñjanam saha gopaih kunjäntartvrtman namata

He is sitting in the flowery bower and eating with His playmates, the gvala bala (cowherd boys).

मन्दारपुष्पवासितमन्दानिल सेवित परानन्दम

mandārapushpaväsitamandānila sevita parānandam

He is being caressed by the gentle breeze made fragrant by mandāra flowers and

मन्दाकिनीयुतपदं नमत महानन्ददं महापुरुषम्॥

mandākiniyutapadani naman makanandadani mahāpuruşham

His lotus feet are served by the sacred river Gangā. Meditate upon that supreme personality, Shri Krishna, who is the embodiment of divine bliss.

सुरभीकृतदिग्वलयं सुरभिशतैरावृतः परितः।

surablīkritadigvalayan surabhuislatairāvritalı paritaha

 His divine fragrance pervades all four directions. Meditate on the sweet Shri Krishna surrounded by thousands of cows even more beautiful than kaniadhenu.

सुरभीतिक्षपणमहासुरभीमं यादवं नमत॥

surabhītikşhapanamahāsurabhīmam yādavam namata

 Meditate on the Prince of the Yadu dynasty, who keeps the gods in His loving protection by terrifying the demons."
